Add practical session section (#18)
open-education-hub/methodology: description.md

### Practical Sessions

> Practical sessions are represented by hands-on activities that learners perform in order to acquire practical experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Practical sessions are represented by hands-on activities that learners perform in order to acquire experience.
```

These activities are typically supervized by a teacher that proposes the practical exercices and evaluates the learner's performance.

> The purpose of the evaluation is mainly to provide constructive feedback, as opposed to grading the student.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of the evaluation is mainly to provide constructive feedback and support, as opposed to grading the student.
```

Reviewer 2: I would refrain from using the word "constructive". It doesn't actually say anything.

Also, I wouldn't say the primary purpose is feedback. The primary purpose is to grain practical skills, to learn by doing.

Author: The purpose of the evaluation is to provide feedback. The purpose of the practical session is to learn by doing as mentioned in the leading sentence.

Author: @gabrielmocanu also, the purpose of the evaluation is not to provide support, but to provide feedback.

> Instances of practical sessions are represented by laboratories, seminars or workshops.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instances of practical sessions are represented by lab sessions, seminars or workshops.
```

I wouldn't use "laboratories", since that term is usually reserved for physical rooms.

The format of a practical session may include:

> - theoretical and practical explanations offered by the teacher.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- theoretical explanations and practical examples offered by the teacher.
```

> - theoretical and practical explanations offered by the teacher.

Reviewer 2: The first item should be "support material" in the form of reading content and media, and slides.

Author: No, this is not a description of the materials needed for practical sessions, but rather a description of the high-level activities that take place during a practical session. What you are asking for is treated below.

- practical activities performed by the learners.
- debates and discussions between students and teacher or between students themselves regarding specific topics.

> - feedback from the teacher or peers.

Reviewer 2: For each bullet you should reference items in the section `Types of Content` that are used in practical sessions.

> The presence and length of each of these activities during a practical session is influenced by the preference of the teacher.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The presence and length of each of these activities during a practical session are a matter of the teacher's preference.
```

Reviewer 2: I would reword it "Teacher preference, institutional recommendations and implementation specifics dictate:
* which types of practical sessions are used
* length of a practical session instance
* format of a practical session"

As such, the educational materials used as support for the practical sessions should offer the flexibility of being tailored depending on the teacher's needs.
At the same time, they should be usable in the absence of a teacher as standalone learning materials for self-taught individuals that want to learn by themselves.

> To meet these constraints, educational materials for practical sessions should abide to the following format.

Reviewer 2: After "the following format" I would expect a listing, but that comes later. I would rephrase this.

> A practical sessions is comprised of a series of concepts that the learner must assimilate.

Reviewer 3: Both sentences serve as an introduction, I think it is clearer with only the second one.

> A practical sessions is comprised of a series of concepts that the learner must assimilate.

Reviewer 2: I would use the term "topics" instead of "concepts". "concept" is more theoretical, while "topic" sounds closer to the "learning unit".

A concept must contain:

> - a brief theoretical description (which may contain links to more broader explanations) by using reading and media materials.

Reviewer 2: Do not use periods (`.`) at the end of bullet points.

> - a brief theoretical description (which may contain links to more broader explanations) by using reading and media materials.

Reviewer 2: and, potentially, slides

- one or more practical exemplifications of the described concept by using demos.
- one or more tutorials where the learner makes the first steps in applying the described concept.
- one or more quizzes regarding some aspects of what has been presented so far.
- one or more drills where the learner applies the presented concept.

> There is no enforcement on the order in which the above content types should be present in the concept layout, because that depends on the nature of the presented concept.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is no enforcement on the order in which the above content types should appear in the concept layout because that depends on the nature of the presented concept.
```

However, we do recommend that the content types are mingled toghether so that the learner's attention is kept alive.
For example, having a large theoretical description or a large demo may bore some students.
To avoid that, quizzes, drills and tutorials may be sprinkled throught the concept layout to assure more engagement.

> Ideally, each practical activity (quiz, tutorial, drill) would be automatically evaluated and feedback would be instantly generated, if possible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ideally, each practical activity (quiz, tutorial, drill) would be automatically evaluated and feedback would be instantly generated.
```
"Ideally" and "if possible" mean the same thing here.

> For example, in computer programming courses, where drills and tutorials are typically comprised of writting programs, a checker should also accompany them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in computer programming courses, where drills and tutorials are typically comprised of writing programs, a checker should also accompany them.
```

> For example, in computer programming courses, where drills and tutorials are typically comprised of writting programs, a checker should also accompany them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, in Computer Programming courses, drills and tutorials typically require the student to write programs.
Checkers should accompany these activities to ensure automated verification.
```

Quizzes, if employed, are automatically checked for correctness.
Therefore, for humanitarian fields of study such as history or philosophy, we recommend using quizzes instead of drills as a form of practical activity.

> The number of concepts and the ordering in which the concepts are presented in a practical session is highly dependent on the nature of the field of study and the preference of the teacher.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The number of topics and the ordering in which the topics are presented in a practical session is highly dependent on the nature of the field of study and the preference of the teacher.
```

As a consequence, we do not have any recommendations regarding this aspect.
However, if the content creator develops materials that have dependencies between them, this should be specified.

Some teachers use slides to perform the brief theoretical description.
Since this is a subjective choice, as content creators we do not provide slides for practical sessions.

> Rather, we create all of the concepts and it is up to the user to choose between them and create additional materials, such as slides.

Reviewer 2: This is imprecise. We do provide slides, and they can be used during practical activities. There is no reason the `slides` content type should only be used for lectures.

### Practical Sessions

Practical sessions are represented by hands-on activities that learners perform in order to acquire experience.

> These activities are typically supervised by a teacher that proposes the practical exercises and evaluates the learner's performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These activities are typically supervised by a teacher who proposes the practical exercises and evaluates the learner's performance.
```

The purpose of the evaluation is mainly to provide feedback as opposed to grading the student.

> Instances of practical sessions are represented by lab sessions, seminars or workshops.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Instances of practical sessions are represented by lab sessions, seminars, or workshops.
```

The format of a practical session may include:

- theoretical explanations and practical examples offered by the teacher
- practical activities performed by the learners
- debates and discussions between students and teacher or between students themselves regarding specific topics
- feedback from the teacher or peers

> Teacher preference, institutional recommendations and implementation specifics dictate:

Reviewer 3: I like this sentence.

- which types of practical sessions are used
- length of a practical session instance
- format of a practical session

As such, the educational materials used as support for the practical sessions should offer the flexibility of being tailored depending on the teacher's needs.
At the same time, they should be usable in the absence of a teacher as standalone learning materials for self-taught individuals that want to learn by themselves.

> A practical session is comprised of a series of topics that the learner must assimilate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A practical session comprises a series of topics that the learner must assimilate.
```

### Practical Sessions

Practical sessions are represented by hands-on activities that learners perform in order to acquire experience.
These activities are typically supervised by a teacher that proposes the practical exercises and evaluates the learner's performance.
The purpose of the evaluation is mainly to provide feedback as opposed to grading the student.

Instances of practical sessions are represented by lab sessions, seminars or workshops.
The format of a practical session may include:

> - support material in the form of 

Author: this was a slip. I started adding something, but then thought it's better this way.

At the same time, they should be usable in the absence of a teacher as standalone learning materials for self-taught individuals that want to learn by themselves.

A practical session is comprised of a series of topics that the learner must assimilate.
A topic must contain:

- a brief theoretical description (which may contain links to broader explanations) by using [reading content](#reading), [media](#media), and, potentially, [slide](#slides) materials
- one or more practical exemplifications of the described topic by using [demos](#demos)
- one or more [tutorials](#tutorials) where the learner makes the first steps in applying the described topic
- one or more [quizzes](#quizzes) regarding some aspects of what has been presented so far
- one or more [drills](#drills) where the learner applies the presented topic

There is no enforcement on the order in which the above content types should appear in the topic layout because that depends on the nature of the presented topic.
However, we do recommend that the content types are mingled together so that the learner's attention is kept alive.
For example, having a large theoretical description or a large demo may bore some students.

> To avoid that, quizzes, drills and tutorials may be sprinkled throught the topic layout to assure more engagement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid that, quizzes, drills and tutorials may be sprinkled throughout the topic layout to ensure more engagement.
```
